all right this is kaho Ogawa of American
Ballet Theatre doing ten pirouettes on
point bringing her arms to high v let's
take a look at why she's able to do this
let's just play it once in real time 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and down beautiful let's
take a look at it in slow motion 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 and a little bit of a hop
forward and when she comes down but
we'll explain that in a minute what I
want you to look at I say we're in
Reverse is and I've been saying this for
years when you want to do multiple
pirouettes more of meaning more than
four or five pirouettes you want to get
up in there in the 7 8 9 10 category you
don't add them at the end you add them
in the beginning now watch she does her
first pirouette she spotted that's
that's counts as one right there and
she's not even close to her final
position
she doesn't reach her pure look at see
her hips away behind her she doesn't
reach her final pirouette position until
after her second spot right there
so let's look at that again boom back to
the beginning
one two she's finally so she's added two
pirouettes in the beginning of her
sequence before she's even gotten into
her pirouette sequence she's got two out
of the way already right here she's
using the lifting of her arms as impetus
she speeds up right there as impetus to
get those
last pirouettes in and then she simply
floats around as long as she can
spotting her head and using you'll watch
look at see how her right shoulder is
higher than her left right shoulder
higher than her left she's actually
using her back and her spot to create
the inertia or the impetus for each
pirouette within each pirouette when
you're on point there's not a lot of
friction
being created from the floor so you can
kind of float around theoretically you
should be able to float around forever
when you see it really right there how's
her let me draw a line there boom that's
the shoulder angle that she's that she's
and now that's not typical one of the
other things that allows her to do the
amount of pirouettes that she's doing is
watching her prep typical I'm gonna zoom
in on her feet typical point shoe
technique is that is you would take and
when you get to your elevate you would
scoop this under and replace you would
from your center point pardon me
from your center point you would scoop
and replace your toe and she's not doing
that
she corkscrew so let me get rid of those
lines boom she's gonna corkscrew up
she's not gonna replace that toe she's
gonna do her pirouette like and like a
normal on flat pirouette not on Point
pirouette can you see that boom so she
can actually get about three more
pirouettes with the amount of force that
she's able to use in the initial impetus
that she is creating from her
preparation normally and with if you
replace that toe if you scoop it under
you can't use as much you can't bring as
much force
in the beginning and be able to control
that force when you scoop when when you
corkscrew like she's doing you can use
more force in the beginning and then
allow that force to play out at the end
of your pirouettes so three things
corkscrewing
zoom back out also I want you to I want
to draw one more line the three things
is corkscrewing using the arms as a lift
for extra impetus and not replacing well
that's courts your corkscrewing but
adding the pirouettes before i repair
what's in the beginning of your
pirouette sequence and not at the end
watch how she stays on her balance on
her Center the whole time boom now you
can really see when you lift your arms
too high fifth in a pirouette it's
really difficult to maintain to maintain
let's get rid that line and zoom in on
her torso it's really difficult to
maintain this right here this area this
area your ribcage tends to distend when
you lift your arms too high fifth watch
how hers does not and the way that she
does that is by engaging her lats which
are right here and right here
you can see it happen boom you see that
you see her musculature working right
there right there and right there boom
ribcage is absolutely flat completely in
control and so not like shoelaces
absolutely gorgeous and she still has
that right shoulder up which is really
interesting it's almost like she's
looking over her shoulder each time just
gorgeous let's just watch it one more
time give her that last dot there zoom
back out regular time gorgeous